[GRPC] Documentation for 3.4 (#11614)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/grpc-apis/search.md

| `script_score` | [`ScriptScoreQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1131) | Applies custom scoring using scripts. Must be the only field set. |
| `nested` | [`NestedQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L625) | Wraps a query targeting nested fields. Must be the only field set. |

## Supported queries

The gRPC Search API supports the following query types:
* Term-level: `exists`, `fuzzy`, `ids`, `prefix`, `range`, `regexp`, `term`, `terms`, `terms_set`, `wildcard`
* Full-text: `match`, `match_bool_prefix`, `match_phrase`, `match_phrase_prefix`, `multi_match`
* Compound queries: `bool`, `constant_score`
* Geographic: `geo_bounding_box`, `geo_distance`
* Joining queries: `nested`
* Specialized queries: `script`

For more information about these query types, see [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/).

### Term-level query fields

#### ExistsQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`ExistsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1148) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`ExistsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1148) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. The name of the field you wish to search. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

#### FuzzyQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`FuzzyQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2062) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `field` | `string` | Required. The field against which to run a search query. |
```

| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `max_expansions` | `optional int32` | The maximum number of terms to which the query can expand. Default is `50`. |
| `prefix_length` | `optional int32` | The number of leading characters that are not considered in fuzziness. Default is `0`. |
| `rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Default is `constant_score`. |
| `transpositions` | `optional bool` | Specifies whether to allow transpositions of two adjacent characters as edits. Default is `true`. |
| `fuzziness` | `optional` [`Fuzziness`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2083) | The number of character edits needed to change one word to another. |

#### IdsQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`IdsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2104) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `optional float` | A f-loating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
```

| `value` | `string` | Required. The term to search for in the specified field. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Default is `constant_score`. |
| `case_insensitive` | `optional bool` | Allows ASCII case-insensitive matching. Default is `false`. |

#### RangeQuery fields

The [`RangeQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1920) message is a `oneof` type that can contain either a [`NumberRangeQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1928) or a [`DateRangeQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1983).

##### NumberRangeQuery fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `NumberRangeQuery` message accepts the following fields.

```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `relation` | `optional` [`RangeRelation`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2029) | Indicates how the range query matches values for range fields. |
| `gt` | `optional double` | Greater than. |
| `gte` | `optional double` | Greater than or equal to. |
| `lt` | `optional double` | Less than. |
| `lte` | `optional double` | Less than or equal to. |
| `from` | `optional` [`NumberRangeQueryAllOfFrom`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1964) | The starting value for the range. |
| `to` | `optional` [`NumberRangeQueryAllOfTo`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1973) | The ending value for the range. |
| `include_lower` | `optional bool` | Include the lower bound. |
| `include_upper` | `optional bool` | Include the upper bound. |

##### DateRangeQuery fields

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `field` | `string` | Required. The field against which to run a search query. |
```

> | `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `optional float` | A floating-point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
```

| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `relation` | `optional` [`RangeRelation`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2029) | Indicates how the range query matches values for range fields. |
| `gt` | `optional string` | Greater than. |
| `gte` | `optional string` | Greater than or equal to. |
| `lt` | `optional string` | Less than. |
| `lte` | `optional string` | Less than or equal to. |
| `from` | `optional` [`DateRangeQueryAllOfFrom`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2014) | The starting value for the range. |
| `to` | `optional` [`DateRangeQueryAllOfTo`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2021) | The ending value for the range. |
| `format` | `optional string` | The date format pattern. |
| `time_zone` | `optional string` | The time zone identifier. |
| `include_lower` | `optional bool` | Include the lower bound. |

> | `include_upper` | `optional bool` | Include the upper bound. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `include_upper` | `optional bool` | Whether to include the upper bound. |
```

#### RegexpQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`RegexpQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2036) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`RegexpQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2036) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `field` | `string` | Required. The field against which to run a search query. |
```

| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `case_insensitive` | `optional bool` | Allows case-insensitive matching of the regular expression. Default is `false`. |
| `flags` | `optional string` | Enables optional operators for the regular expression. |
| `max_determinized_states` | `optional int32` | Maximum number of automaton states the query requires. Default is `10000`. |
| `rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites and scores multi-term queries. Default is `constant_score`. |

#### TermQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`TermQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1796) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `value_type` | `optional` [`TermsQueryValueType`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1719) | Specifies the types of values used for filtering. Valid values are `default` and `bitmap`. Default is `default`. |
| `terms` | `map<string, `[`TermsQueryField`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1725)`>` | A map of field names to terms values or terms lookup. |

#### TermsSetQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`TermsSetQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1775) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `field` | `string` | Required. The field against which to run a search query. |
```

| `terms` | `repeated string` | Required. The array of terms to search for in the specified field. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `minimum_should_match_field` | `optional string` | The name of the numeric field that specifies the number of matching terms required. |
| `minimum_should_match_script` | `optional` [`Script`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L37) | A script that returns the number of matching terms required. |

#### WildcardQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`WildcardQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1209) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `field` | `string` | Required. The field against which to run a search query. |
```

| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `case_insensitive` | `optional bool` | Allows case-insensitive matching. Default is `false`. |
| `rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. |
| `value` | `optional string` | Wildcard pattern for terms you wish to find. Required when `wildcard` is not set. |
| `wildcard` | `optional string` | Wildcard pattern for terms you wish to find. Required when `value` is not set. |

### Full-text query fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following sections describe the fields for each full-text query message.

```

#### MatchQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1324) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`MatchQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1324) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |
| `query` | [`FieldValue`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2094) | Required. The query string to use for search. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `analyzer` | `optional string` | The analyzer used to tokenize the query string text. |
| `auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query` | `optional bool` | Specifies whether to create a match phrase query automatically for multi-term synonyms. |

> | `fuzziness` | `optional` [`Fuzziness`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2083) | The number of character edits that it takes to change one word to another. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fuzziness` | `optional` [`Fuzziness`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2083) | The number of character edits (insertions, deletions, substitutions, or transpositions) that it takes to change one word to another when determining whether a term matched a value. |
```

> | `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Default is `constant_score`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Valid values are `constant_score`, `scoring_boolean`, `constant_score_boolean`, `top_terms_N`, `top_terms_boost_N`, and `top_terms_blended_freqs_N`. Default is `constant_score`. |
```

| `prefix_length` | `optional int32` | The number of leading characters that are not considered in fuzziness. Default is `0`. |
| `zero_terms_query` | `optional` [`ZeroTermsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2208) | Specifies whether to match no documents (`none`) or all documents (`all`) when the analyzer removes all terms. Default is `none`. |

#### MatchBoolPrefixQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchBoolPrefixQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2171) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |
| `query` | `string` | Required. The terms you wish to find in the provided field. The last term is used in a prefix query. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `analyzer` | `optional string` | The analyzer used to tokenize the query string text. |
| `fuzziness` | `optional` [`Fuzziness`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2083) | The number of character edits that it takes to change one word to another. |

> | `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Default is `constant_score`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Valid values are `constant_score`, `scoring_boolean`, `constant_score_boolean`, `top_terms_N`, `top_terms_boost_N`, and `top_terms_blended_freqs_N`. Default is `constant_score`. |
```

| `fuzzy_transpositions` | `optional bool` | Adds swaps of adjacent characters to the fuzziness operations. Default is `true`. |
| `max_expansions` | `optional int32` | The maximum number of terms to which the query can expand. Default is `50`. |
| `minimum_should_match` | `optional` [`MinimumShouldMatch`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1395) | The number of terms that need to match for the document to be considered a match. |
| `operator` | `optional` [`Operator`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1159) | Whether all terms need to match (`AND`) or only one term needs to match (`OR`). Default is `OR`. |
| `prefix_length` | `optional int32` | The number of leading characters that are not considered in fuzziness. Default is `0`. |

#### MatchPhraseQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchPhraseQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2235) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`MatchPhraseQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2235) message accepts the following fields.
```

| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `analyzer` | `optional string` | The analyzer used to tokenize the query string text. |
| `slop` | `optional int32` | The number of other words permitted between words in the query phrase. Default is `0` (exact match). |
| `zero_terms_query` | `optional` [`ZeroTermsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2208) | Specifies whether to match no documents (`none`) or all documents (`all`) when the analyzer removes all terms. Default is `none`. |

#### MatchPhrasePrefixQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchPhrasePrefixQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2216) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `field` | `string` | Required. Specifies the field against which to run a search query. |
| `query` | `string` | Required. The query string to use for search. |

> | `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `optional float` | A floating-point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
```

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `analyzer` | `optional string` | The analyzer used to tokenize the query string text. |
| `max_expansions` | `optional int32` | The maximum number of terms to which the query can expand. Default is `50`. |
| `slop` | `optional int32` | The number of other words permitted between words in the query phrase. Default is `0` (exact match). |
| `zero_terms_query` | `optional` [`ZeroTermsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2208) | Specifies whether to match no documents (`none`) or all documents (`all`) when the analyzer removes all terms. Default is `none`. |

#### MultiMatchQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`MultiMatchQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2252) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`MultiMatchQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2252) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `query` | `string` | Required. The query string to use for search. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `analyzer` | `optional string` | The analyzer used to tokenize the query string text. |
| `auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query` | `optional bool` | Specifies whether to create a match phrase query automatically for multi-term synonyms. Default is `true`. |
| `fields` | `repeated string` | The list of fields in which to search. |

> | `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Default is `constant_score`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fuzzy_rewrite` | `optional` [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) | Determines how OpenSearch rewrites the query. Valid values are `constant_score`, `scoring_boolean`, `constant_score_boolean`, `top_terms_N`, `top_terms_boost_N`, and `top_terms_blended_freqs_N`. Default is `constant_score`. |
```

| `slop` | `optional int32` | The number of other words permitted between words in the query phrase. Supported for `phrase` and `phrase_prefix` query types. |
| `tie_breaker` | `optional float` | A factor between `0` and `1.0` used to give more weight to documents matching multiple query clauses. |
| `type` | `optional` [`TextQueryType`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1890) | The multi-match query type. Valid values are `best_fields`, `most_fields`, `cross_fields`, `phrase`, `phrase_prefix`, `bool_prefix`. Default is `best_fields`. |
| `zero_terms_query` | `optional` [`ZeroTermsQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2208) | Specifies whether to match no documents (`none`) or all documents (`all`) when the analyzer removes all terms. Default is `none`. |

#### MatchAllQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchAllQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2163) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `optional float` | A floating-point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
```

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

#### MatchNoneQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`MatchNoneQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2198) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

### Compound query fields

#### BoolQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`BoolQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1368) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`BoolQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1368) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `filter` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) must appear in matching documents. The score of the query will be ignored. |
| `minimum_should_match` | `optional` [`MinimumShouldMatch`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1395) | The minimum number of `should` clauses that must match. |

> | `must` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) must appear in matching documents and will contribute to the score. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `must` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) that must appear in matching documents and contributes to the score. |
```

| `must_not` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) must not appear in matching documents. A score of `0` is returned for all documents. |

> | `should` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) should appear in the matching document. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `should` | `repeated` [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | The clause (query) that should appear in the matching document. |
```

| `adjust_pure_negative` | `optional bool` | Ensures correct behavior when a query contains only `must_not` clauses. Default is `true`. |

#### ConstantScoreQuery fields

The following table lists the fields for the [`ConstantScoreQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1421) message.

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `filter` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | Required. The filter query that a document must match to be returned in the results. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

### Joining query fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following sections describe the fields for each joining query message.

```

#### NestedQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`NestedQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L625) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`NestedQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L625) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | `path` | `string` | Required. The path to a field or an array of paths. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `path` | `string` | Required. The path to a field or an array of paths to fields in which to search. |
```

| `query` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L493) | Required. The query to run on the nested objects within the specified path. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |
| `ignore_unmapped` | `optional bool` | Set to `true` to ignore an unmapped field and not match any documents. Default is `false`. |
| `inner_hits` | `optional` [`InnerHits`](#innerhits-fields) | If provided, returns the underlying hits that matched the query. |
| `score_mode` | `optional` [`ChildScoreMode`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L642) | Defines how scores of matching inner documents influence the parent document's score. |

### Geographic query fields

#### GeoBoundingBoxQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`GeoBoundingBoxQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L507) message. This query returns documents whose geopoints are within the bounding box specified in the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A geo-bounding box query returns documents whose geopoints are within the bounding box specified in the query. The [`GeoBoundingBoxQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L507) message accepts the following fields.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | The name of the filter. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `type` | `optional` [`GeoExecution`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L573) | The execution type for the geo query. |
| `validation_method` | `optional` [`GeoValidationMethod`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1066) | The validation method. Valid values are `IGNORE_MALFORMED`, `COERCE`, and `STRICT`. Default is `STRICT`. |
| `ignore_unmapped` | `optional bool` | Specifies whether to ignore an unmapped field. Default is `false`. |
| `bounding_box` | `map<string, `[`GeoBounds`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L522)`>` | A map of field names to geo bounds defining the bounding box. |

#### GeoDistanceQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`GeoDistanceQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L579) message. This query returns documents with geopoints that are within a specified distance from the provided geopoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A geodistance query returns documents with geopoints that are within a specified distance from the provided geopoint. The [`GeoDistanceQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L579) message accepts the following fields. 
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `distance` | `string` | Required. The distance within which to match the points. This is the radius of a circle centered at the specified point. |
| `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

> | `x_name` | `optional string` | The name of the filter. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x_name` | `optional string` | A query name for query tagging. |
```

| `distance_type` | `optional` [`GeoDistanceType`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1033) | Specifies how to calculate the distance. Valid values are `arc` or `plane`. |
| `validation_method` | `optional` [`GeoValidationMethod`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1066) | The validation method. Valid values are `IGNORE_MALFORMED`, `COERCE`, and `STRICT`. Default is `STRICT`. |
| `ignore_unmapped` | `optional bool` | Set to `true` to ignore an unmapped field and not match any documents. Default is `false`. |
| `unit` | `optional` [`DistanceUnit`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L598) | The unit of distance measurement. |
| `location` | `map<string, `[`GeoLocation`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L145)`>` | A map of field names to geo locations specifying the center point. |

### Specialized query fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following sections describe the fields for each specialized query message.

```

#### ScriptQuery fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`ScriptQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L497) message. This query filters documents based on a custom condition written in the Painless scripting language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A script query filters documents based on a custom condition written in the Painless scripting language. The [`ScriptQuery`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L497) message accepts the following fields. 
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `script` | [`Script`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L37) | Required. The script to execute for filtering documents. |

> | `boost` | `optional float` | Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `boost` | `optional float` | A floating-point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of the query. Default is `1.0`. |
```

| `x_name` | `optional string` | Query name for query tagging. |

### Common types

#### Fuzziness

The [`Fuzziness`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2083) message is a `oneof` type that can contain:

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `string` | `string` | `AUTO` generates an edit distance based on the length of the term. You can optionally provide `AUTO:[low],[high]`. |
| `int32` | `int32` | `0`, `1`, or `2`: The maximum allowed Levenshtein Edit Distance. |

#### MultiTermQueryRewrite

> The [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) enum determines how OpenSearch rewrites and scores multi-term queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`MultiTermQueryRewrite`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L1232) enum determines how OpenSearch rewrites and scores multi-term queries. It accepts the following values.
```

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `int32` | `int32` | An integer specifying the minimum number of terms that should match. |
| `string` | `string` | A string specifying a percentage or combination. See [Minimum should match]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/minimum-should-match/). |

#### FieldValue

The [`FieldValue`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2094) message represents a field value and can contain:

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `bool` | `optional bool` | A Boolean value. |
| `general_number` | `optional` [`GeneralNumber`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L186) | A numeric value. |
| `string` | `optional string` | A string value. |
| `null_value` | `optional` [`NullValue`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L132) | A null value. |

#### InnerHits fields

> The following table lists the fields for the [`InnerHits`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L651) message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`InnerHits`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.24.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L651) message accepts the following fields.
```
